# Options

Configure Nuxt Directus easily with the `directus` property.

---

```ts [nuxt.config]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-directus-next'],

  // Your other configs

  directus: {
    moduleConfig: {
      devtools: true,
      autoImport: false,
      autoRefresh: true
    }
  }
})
```

## Available Options

The following are all the available options inside the `directus` property.

### `url`

- No default - **Required**

The url to which requests are made to.

It is possible to set/change it at runtime via `NUXT_PUBLIC_DIRECTUS_URL` env variable.

### `staticToken`

- No default - **Optional**

A static token used both server and client side.

It is possible to set/change it at runtime via `NUXT_PUBLIC_DIRECTUS_STATIC_TOKEN` env variable.

### `staticTokenServer`

- No default - **Optional**

A static token used only server side.

It is possible to set/change it at runtime via `NUXT_DIRECTUS_STATIC_TOKEN` env variable.

### `authConfig.authStateName`

- Default: `directus.auth`

The name for the [Nuxt's `useState`](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-state) that handles authentication data such as access_token.

### `authConfig.userStateName`

- Default: `directus.user`

The name for the [Nuxt's `useState`](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-state) that handles user data once authenticated.

### `authConfig.useNuxtCookies`

- Default: `true`

Handle auth cookies using Nuxt instead of Directus

### `authConfig.refreshTokenCookieName`

- Default: `directus_refresh_token`

Refresh Token Cookie Name, if [`useNuxtCookies`](#authconfigusenuxtcookies) is `true`.

### `authConfig.cookieHttpOnly`

- Default: `false`

The HttpOnly attribute for auth cookies, if [`useNuxtCookies`](#authconfigusenuxtcookies) is `true`.

### `authConfig.cookieSameSite`

- Default: `lax`

The SameSite attribute for auth cookies, if [`useNuxtCookies`](#authconfigusenuxtcookies) is `true`.

### `authConfig.cookieSecure`

- Default: `false`

The Secure attribute for auth cookies, if [`useNuxtCookies`](#authconfigusenuxtcookies) is `true`.

### `moduleConfig.devtools`

- Default: `false`

Activate the Nuxt Devtools, checkout [Devtools](/getting-started/devtools) before activating

### `moduleConfig.autoRefresh`

- Default: `true`

Whether to automatically refresh the access token and user data.

::alert{type=warning}
If set to `false` you have to provide your own logic to refresh both the `access_token` as well as the user's data. Refer to the available composables.
::

### `moduleConfig.autoImport`

- Default: `false`

Auto import native components from the Directus SDK.

### `moduleConfig.autoImportPrefix`

- Default - `sdk`

Prefix for auto imported components from the Directus SDK.

### `moduleConfig.autoImportSuffix`

- No default - **Optional**

Suffix for auto imported components from the Directus SDK.

:feedback-box
