# Advanced Use

## Native Components from SDK

Since this module dependents on the Directus SDK, you could enable Nuxt's auto-import feature via `directus.moduleConfig.autoImport` in your `nuxt.config`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-directus-next'],
  directus: {
    url: 'http://localhost:8055/',
    moduleConfig: {
      autoImport: true
    }
  }
})
```

When auto-importing is enabled, by default, all native composables are prefixed with `sdk` (`sdkReadItems()`). This is easily customizable by editing your `nuxt.config`:

::code-group
```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-directus-next'],
  directus: {
    url: 'http://localhost:8055/',
    moduleConfig: {
      autoImport: true,
      autoImportPrefix: 'OG'
    }
  }
})
```

```ts [page/component]
const client = useDirectusRest()

const posts = await client.request(OGReadItems('posts'))
```
::

::alert{type=warning}
If you plan to fetch data from Directus while using Nuxt in SSR, do remember to wrap your client request in a [`useAsyncData`](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-async-data) to prevent double fetches and losing context between server and client renders.
::

## Authentication Cookies

User authentication credentials, by default, are handled by Nuxt. Both `access_token` via state management and `refresh_token` via cookie. Their options and naming can be edited in your `nuxt.config`.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-directus-next'],
  directus: {
    url: 'http://localhost:8055/',
    authConfig: {
      useNuxtCookies: true
      refreshTokenCookieName: 'directus_refresh_token',
      cookieHttpOnly: false,
      cookieSameSite: 'lax',
      cookieSecure: true,
      authStateName: 'directus.auth'
      userStateName: 'directus.user'
    }
  }
})
```

Other options, like cookie expiry, are handled by Directus's configuration.

If, on the other hand, you would like to handle user authentication only using Directus `auth` endpoint, you can do so by setting `directus.authConfig.useNuxtCookies` to `false`. In this mode you will depend on the cookie configuration set in your Directus deployment config, while leaving Nuxt handle only the `access_token` and user data via [state management](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/state-management).

::alert
Be aware that Directus, by default, sets cookies as `httpOnly`. While this is a great thing, it could become an issue depending on your project, since any client-side Nuxt execution isn't able to read nor edit those cookies.
Always double check you project need, before potentially spamming the user with `401 Unauthorized` errors.
::

## Nuxt API

It is also possible to fetch data from Nuxt's API.

While being the only server util currently available, `useDirectusRest()` behaves exactly like the normal composable, with the exception of missing the authentication configuration and storage. But, since we are in a server-side-only environment we have access to [`staticTokenServer`](/getting-started/options#statictokenserver) any other private `runtimeConfig`. Or much like the normal rest client you could pass your own logic for [`useStaticToken`](/getting-started/basic-concepts#static-tokens).

```ts [~/server/api/read.get.ts]
import type { Schema } from '~/types'
import { readItems } from '@directus/sdk'

export default defineEventHandler((event) => {
  const client = useDirectusRest<Schema>()

  return client.request(readItems('posts'))
})
```

::altert
It is important to remember that inside the `~/server/` folder manual import of composables is required, except for those defined in `~/server/utils`.
::

:feedback-box
